no when i think of babies uh happy
gurgles and giggles don't come to my
mind i think more
uh whiny annoying loud
stinky smelly waste of time life for
ruiner
so if you go to the gambling house
all right and you're going to play dice
and on the dice are
skull and crossbows on each dice and
let's say they're 20-sided dice just for
fun
and so you think the odds are pretty low
no big deal
but if you get two you know snake eyes
two skull and crossbones
a gun pops out of the table and shoots
your wife
you still gonna gamble
now we'll see when it's some non-thing
you know it's a thing in the non-verse
and you're just going to pluck it out
you don't know it yet
you don't know it's disposition it's
welfare you don't know its sensitivities
you know what if i found the thing that
your wife fears the most
and the worst possible kind of death now
put that on the dice
you still gonna play the game i mean
really
people like to disrespect my crew but
the fact is that you know my name and i
don't know
you philosophy is about
problem solving sometimes
the problem we need to solve
is the attitude that lurks behind
an argument not a specific
factual claim and not a flaw
in the explicitly stated argument
the attitude that this youtuber
in mendem is demonstrating for you here
is an attitude that i hear from vegan
gains
again and again and again
and the attitude is that they as people
who would refuse
to have a child ever that they are doing
something
bold and brave and defiant
whereas in fact what they're doing is
cowardly
and they're trying to justify and
normalize
their own cowardice to the assertion
that everyone
everyone shares this trait with them
everyone is just as averse
to these risks these negative
consequences as they are
or anyone who doesn't share their
cowardice
must be insane in mendem
seems to think that it's absolutely
absurd to take this risk
to risk sudden violent death
at a rate of 1 in 20.
he thinks nobody would take that
gamble if they knew what they were
getting themselves into
in world war 1 of canadian soldiers who
served more than 50 000
died very roughly
your odds of being killed be one in 12.
in world war ii strangely the statistics
are
even more vague i couldn't find out
precisely how many people
served in the military perhaps
one in 22 perhaps we could round it off
further and say it's about the same as
his image here of rolling
a 20-sided dice that your odds would be
one in 12.
now this is canada we're talking about
in world war
ii your odds of dying
in world war ii if you were born a
citizen of poland
or shockingly staggeringly terrible
the fate of the polish people as whole
both jewish and gentile during world war
ii
will give you nightmares so it gets much
much worse than these statistics
and some people were cowards
some people were cowards
and some people found ways to struggle
and fight
that were not nearly so easy as
joining a conventional army that would
at least provide you with
meals and a place to sleep you know some
people had to fight
in much more terrible circumstances
if your position is there is no
risk worth taking at a rate of
1 in 20 that you wouldn't roll the
20-sided dice
and risk your own life you are a coward
and i understand that you want to
justify
that cowardice by generalizing that
cowardice
by saying that all of humanity shares
this trait with you but you're wrong
having a child takes guts
having a child involves elements
of risk you have to be bold enough
to endure unspeakable suffering
not everyone should join the army not
everyone should become
a combatant not everyone should become a
parent
not everyone has what it takes and i
would never
attempt to convince vegan gains that he
should become apparent
he would doubtless be a terrible parent
he is dealt with correct in his
assessment that he should never have
children
but isn't it fundamentally humble
humiliating to stop and reflect
that this is something i can't do
this is something you personally can't
do this is something
you're lacking but that others should do
must do that even perhaps is a little
bit
heroic when others do it that's
something you might be able to
admire in others no no no
what people like in mendem must do
is justify their own ego by vilifying
more than 90 percent of the human race
by saying that
everyone else is crazy everyone else is
crazy
because they don't share this
fundamental
cowardice there's a philosophically
significant contrast between this
problem i've been describing
and what goes on in the minds of newly
converted
atheists people who've just made the
transition
from american christianity to american
atheism in the 21st century
let me just pause to disclose i am
myself an atheist
and i am not one of these atheists who
has the attitude
of whatever makes you happy like you do
you
i'm not an atheist who's in favor of
spiritualism or spirituality or
continuing to celebrate christmas just
so that you can
sing songs with your extended family i
am i am much more of an extreme and
uncompromising
atheist but nevertheless i'm not
interested
in supporting an atheist movement that's
built on a lie
anymore that i'm interested in
supporting a religion
that's built on a lie i'm quite willing
and eager
to examine the defects and disadvantages
of atheism
and the attitudes atheism brings into
our lives in the same way that i'm
willing to examine
the defects of religion and the
attitudes and assumptions
religions bring into our lives all right
and there is a huge phenomenon
in the 21st century searching now on
youtube i couldn't find a single video
examining it or discussing it there
probably are videos and they're probably
very censored and hard to find
within youtube topic for another video
um i couldn't find a single video just
now
talking about the psychological pattern
of people converting from christianity
to atheism
and then assuming and then imagining
that the most heroic thing they can do
is live a life of sensual indulgence
live a life devoted to
sleeping around or seducing other man's
wives
or engaging in whatever sexual acts were
forbidden
before where suddenly they regard it as
courageous heroic and manly shall we say
to do all of the things their
grandparents
would have forbidden them to do before
precisely because
their grandparents forbid them to do it
before they're incapable of recognizing
that there is a kind of heroism there is
a kind of virtue
there is a kind of self-discipline in
being a good person
in the absence of that religious
tradition their grandparents have in the
absence of the delusions
their grandparents subscribe to
nevertheless they face the same
challenge
of what it means to be a good person
especially in relation to
controlling one's sexual desires or
whatever other miscellaneous desires
before they subordinated to these
ridiculous
religious delusions all right
in the same way it seems to be very easy
for people to convince themselves
that there is something heroic about
anti-natalism
that there was something heroic about
refusing
to take on the responsibilities of a
parent
just because their religious tradition
just because their parents
and grandparents conditioned them
to believe that having a child that
raising a child that making those
sacrifices that taking on those
responsibilities
was something they were obliged
to do okay in rejecting
religious belief we reject the
obligation
as irrational and i would agree
that you have no obligation to any god
to be shall we say sexually
a good person to be self-disciplined
in dealing with your desires and the
consequences of acting on those desires
for yourself and others you have no
obligation to any god you have an
obligation to yourself
you have an obligation to others you
have no obligation to any god
and you have no obligations your parents
your grandparents
your cultural traditions that may be
outside
of religion strictly defined you have no
obligation to your ancestors stretching
back thousands of years
or any of those values in your family
you have no obligation to
anyone to have a child and yet you
should
still be able to recognize the type
of self-discipline the type of
self-sacrifice and yes even
the type of heroism that is required
that is involved in making the
commitment to have
and raise children when i look at people
like vegan gains
when i look at people like admandom and
when i look at people who go off the
deep end
after converting from christianity to
atheism and suddenly have to indulge
in sex with prostitutes use of
recreational drugs
in all the things that were forbidden to
them before all right
what i see is a kind of cowardice
what i see of course is a reckless lack
of self-discipline
that they are justifying in their own
minds
as if it were courage because
for them it's an act of rebellion
against these
absent grandparents these absent
ancestors yes even these absent
gods don't talk what you like tell
people that it's the same
because you can stand that i suck ninja
still spreading my name